Write a Python program that inputs a polynomial in standard algebraic notation and outputs the ﬁrst derivative of that polynomial. P-2.34 Write a Python program that inputs a document and then outputs a barchart plot of the frequencies of each alphabet character that appears in that document.
2.7. Exercises
107 P-2.35 Write a set of Python classes that can simulate an Internet application in which one party, Alice, is periodically creating a set of packets that she wants to send to Bob. An Internet process is continually checking if Alice has any packets to send, and if so, it delivers them to Bob’s computer, and Bob isperiodically checking ifhis computer has apacket from Alice, and, if so, he reads and deletes it.
P-2.36 Write a Python program to simulate an ecosystem containing two types of creatures, bears and ﬁsh. The ecosystem consists of a river, which is modeled as a relatively large list. Each element of the list should be a Bear object, a Fish object, or None. In each time step, based on a random process, each animal either attempts to move into an adjacent list location or stay where it is. If two animals of the same type are about to collide in the samecell, then theystay where theyare, but theycreate anewinstance of that type of animal, which is placed in a random empty (i.e., previously None) location in the list. If a bear and a ﬁsh collide, however, then the ﬁsh dies (i.e., it disappears).
P-2.37 Write a simulator, as in the previous project, but add a Boolean gender ﬁeld and a ﬂoating-point strength ﬁeld to each animal, using an Animal class as a base class. If two animals of the same type try to collide, then they only create a new instance of that type of animal if they are of different genders. Otherwise, if two animals of the same type and gender try to collide, then only the one of larger strength survives.
P-2.38 Write a Python program that simulates a system that supports the functions of an e-book reader. You should include methods for users of your system to “buy” new books, view their list of purchased books, and read their purchased books. Your system should use actual books, which have expired copyrights and are available on the Internet, to populate your set of available books for users of your system to “purchase” andread.
P-2.39 Develop an inheritance hierarchy based upon a Polygon class that has abstract methods area() and perimeter(). Implement classes Triangle, Quadrilateral, Pentagon, Hexagon, andOctagon that extend this base class, with the obvious meanings for thearea() and perimeter()methods. Also implement classes, IsoscelesTriangle, EquilateralTriangle, Rectangle, andSquare, that have the appropriate inheritance relationships. Finally, write a simple program that allows users to create polygons of the various types and input their geometric dimensions, and theprogram then outputs their area and perimeter. For extra effort, allow users to input polygons by specifying their vertex coordinates and be able to test if two such polygons are similar.
108
Chapter 2. Object-Oriented 